scaling-bedrock-video-delivery (#289)
BedrockStreaming/tech.bedrockstreaming.com: _posts/2021-12-15-scaling-bedrock-video-delivery-to-50-million-users.md

author:
    name: Vincent Gallissot
avatar:
email:
twitter: vgallissot
github: vgallissot
category:
tags: [aws, cloud, sysadmin, HAProxy, video, high availability, Unified Streaming, VOD, OTT, video delivery]
comments: false
image:
  feature: posts/2021-12-15-scaling-bedrock-video-delivery-to-50-million-users/Visuel-BR-Devices-HD-6V2-BRLogo.jpg
language: en
---

Here's our journey to migrate tens of thousands of videos accessed by millions of users to the cloud. How we minimized our costs without losing the biggest benefit of the cloud: scaling.

The purpose of this article is to show you the evolution of this cloud video delivery platform, from the first draft to the current version.

## Table of Contents

* What Streaming is
* Just In Time Packaging
* Version 1: The quest for self
    * Local cache with Nginx
    * Network Load Balancer: manages TLS and helps with scaling
    * Content Delivery Network: Keep it Simple and Stupid
    * A first conclusion: V2 needs Consistent Hashing
* Version 2: Let the requests flow
    * HAProxy to make Consistent Hashing

>     * EC2 costs are reduced by using only Spot instances

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * EC2 costs reduced by using only Spot instances
```

    * Production launch on this V2
    * EC2-other: the financial abyss
* Version 3: Cost Explorer Driven Development
    * Be multi-AZ without inter-AZ traffic
    * Mono-AZs AutoScalingGroups
* Optimizations
    * Adapt HAProxy config for EC2 bandwidth throttling

>     * Adjust the hash balance factor so that the scaling is triggered correctly

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * Adjust the hash balance factor to correctly trigger scaling
```

> * What Streaming is
> * Just In Time Packaging
> * Version 1: The quest for self
>     * Local cache with Nginx
>     * Network Load Balancer: manages TLS and helps with scaling
>     * Content Delivery Network: Keep it Simple and Stupid
>     * A first conclusion: V2 needs Consistent Hashing
> * Version 2: Let the requests flow
>     * HAProxy to make Consistent Hashing
>     * EC2 costs are reduced by using only Spot instances
>     * Production launch on this V2
>     * EC2-other: the financial abyss
> * Version 3: Cost Explorer Driven Development
>     * Be multi-AZ without inter-AZ traffic
>     * Mono-AZs AutoScalingGroups
> * Optimizations
>     * Adapt HAProxy config for EC2 bandwidth throttling
>     * Adjust the hash balance factor so that the scaling is triggered correctly
> * Conclusion

Reviewer 2: I was thinking if you can make the table of content clickable ?

```suggestion
* [What Streaming is](#whatStreamingIs)
* [Just In Time Packaging](#jit)
* [Version 1: The quest for self](#version1)
    * [Local cache with Nginx](#localCache)
    * [Network Load Balancer: manages TLS and helps with scaling](#nlb)
    * [Content Delivery Network: Keep it Simple and Stupid](#cdn)
    * [A first conclusion: V2 needs Consistent Hashing](#firstConclusion)
* [Version 2: Let the requests flow](#version2)
    * [HAProxy to make Consistent Hashing](#haproxy)
    * [EC2 costs are reduced by using only Spot instances](#spotInstance)
    * [Production launch on this V2](#productionLaunch)
    * [EC2-other: the financial abyss](#ec2Other)
* [Version 3: Cost Explorer Driven Development](#version3)
    * [Be multi-AZ without inter-AZ traffic](#multiAZ)
    * [Mono-AZs AutoScalingGroups](#monoAZ)
* [Optimizations](#optimization)
    * [Adapt HAProxy config for EC2 bandwidth **throttling**](#adaptHAProxy)
    * [Adjust the hash balance factor so that the scaling is triggered correctly](#balanceFactor)
* [Conclusion](#conclusion)
```

> ## How we do streaming <a name="HowWeDoStreaming"></a>

Reviewer 3: however, this does not seem to be a question here

> ## How we do streaming <a name="HowWeDoStreaming"></a>

Reviewer 4: Internet says it's good, so I'll close this one :)

> To stream video, we cut each video file in 6 seconds chunks. The video player loads the associated manifest, which lists these pieces and in which order it must read them. It then downloads the first video chunk, plays it, then loads the second chunk, etc.

Author: I also like Tanguy's proposal. Keeping it as it's easier to read

![Pictorial explanation of video streaming](/images/posts/2021-12-15-scaling-bedrock-video-delivery-to-50-million-users/pictorial-explanation-of-video-streaming.png)
<center><i>Pictorial explanation of video streaming</i></center>

A video is composed of several chunks.  
For example, a 90 minutes movie, with a duration of 6 seconds per chunk, means 90×60÷6=900 video chunks called from the player plus another 900 audio chunks. A total of 1800 different chunks for a single video.

> ## Just In Time Packaging

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Just In Time Packaging <a name="jit"></a>
```

> A client calls a manifest and chunks to play a video.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A client calls for a manifest and chunks to play a video.  
```

So we store on the S3 side a complete video and its server manifest and USP provides the client with a client manifest and specific chunks: this is JIT packaging.

Another way is to compute all the chunks and manifests in advance and write them to S3: this is offline packaging.  
Once the packaging is done, there is no need to do these calculations anymore: it lightens the architecture and avoids the availability problems of doing real-time calculations.

![Comparing Just-In-Time packaging with Offline Packaging](/images/posts/2021-12-15-scaling-bedrock-video-delivery-to-50-million-users/jit-versus-offline-packaging.png)
<center><i>Comparing Just-In-Time packaging with Offline Packaging</i></center>

This poses a big cost problem. On AWS S3, you pay for data access (GET requests), as well as storage. The more you store, the more you pay and the more you access, the more you pay.  

> I.E: a 90mn video, played in Dash, is cut into 900 chunks plus a single Dash manifest. The same video in HLS, it's 900 different chunks and another manifest: 1802 files written on S3. Add the Smooth Streaming format and you get 2703 files stored on S3, for a single video.

Author: Dans les deux cas, Offline ou JIT, c'est le player qui initie tous les téléchargements de fragments et de manifests. Donc pour moi "played" a tout son sens

> I.E: a 90mn video, played in Dash, is cut into 900 chunks plus a single Dash manifest. The same video in HLS, it's 900 different chunks and another manifest: 1802 files written on S3. Add the Smooth Streaming format and you get 2703 files stored on S3, for a single video.

Reviewer 3: d'ailleurs, j'ai l'impression que l'utilisation de `i.e.` n'est pas souhaitée ici, parce qu'i.e. est plutôt utilisé lorsqu'on souhaite reformuler d'une manière plus explicite et obvious du style :

> I would like you to send me this report as soon as you have finished writing it (i.e. ASAP)

alors que dans notre cas, on a plutôt l'air de donner un exemple de ce que peut représenter du stockage chez nous, donc j'aurais plutôt utilisé `e.g.` au lieu de `i.e.`

Offline packaging is interesting, but incompatible with our need to manage a large number of equipments and vast catalogs: tens of thousands of program hours per customer.

Another approach, which uses the best of the two above solutions, is possible: the **CMAF** (Common Media Application Format) standard.
The player is able to chunk the video itself by adding the HTTP header `Range: Bytes`.  
Many devices, especially connected TVs or old Android versions, are not compatible with CMAF, which is why the rest of this article will focus on Dash/HLS in JITP.

> ## Version 1: The quest for self

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Version 1: The quest for self <a name="version1"></a>
```

> Many devices, especially connected TVs or old Android versions, are not compatible with CMAF, which is why the rest of this article will focus on Dash/HLS in JITP.

Author: Indeed, I just added it, thanks

> ## Version 1: The quest for self <a name="version1"></a>

Author: Yes it was. We didn't knew what to expect so we tried things :shrug:

We were using USP on-prem. We decided to migrate it to the AWS cloud.

> The goal of the V1 was to quickly provide a platform to our video teams to work on and certify the video players. For ops, it was a first stepping stone building this platform.

Reviewer 4: Or Infra team, as you said later

Let’s detail the components of this V1.

![v1 of our VOD platform](/images/posts/2021-12-15-scaling-bedrock-video-delivery-to-50-million-users/vod-usp-v1.png)
<center><i>v1 of our VOD platform</i></center>

Players send their requests to a CDN.  
The CDN uses a network load balancer as its origin.  
The network load balancer forwards requests using a Round Robin algorithm, to multiple AWS EC2 instances that we call "USP Origin". These EC2 instances are controlled by an AutoScalingGroup and are dynamically scaled based on their network or CPU usage.

> ### Local cache with Nginx

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Local cache with Nginx <a name="localCache"></a>
```

> <center><i>v1 of our VOD platform</i></center>

Author: In theory: Yes
In practice: No

It's ugly as fuck with <figcaption> :open_mouth:

On EC2 instances, USP runs as a module of Apache HTTPD.

When a player requests a specific video chunk, it sends an HTTP request to HTTPD. The USP module it embeds will:

* load the according .Ism file from s3 (the server manifest)
* load the video metadatas, stored in the first 65KB and the last 15B of a .mp4 file on s3
* load the specific chunk in the video according to the player’s information: bitrate, language, etc. (still on s3)

For each video chunk called from a player, the USP module will make a new call to the S3 bucket, loading the same .Ism manifest and the same metadatas (first 65K and latest 15B).  
To avoid these calls and reduce S3 costs by 60%, we added Nginx on these EC2s, between HTTPD and s3, to cache the manifest .Ism files and metadatas of .mp4 video files.  

> We’re using **LUA** in the Nginx vhost, to cache these 65KB and 15B requests made by USP to the S3 bucket.

Author: oui, l'engraissement est confusant, j'ai viré

> We’re using **LUA** in the Nginx vhost, to cache these 65KB and 15B requests made by USP to the S3 bucket.

Author: J'ai pensé à mettre un example de code LUA et ça faisait trop avec l'image en plus

> * load the specific chunk in the video, according to the player’s information: bitrate, language, etc. (still on S3)

Author: :100:

![Details on the composition of a USP origin](/images/posts/2021-12-15-scaling-bedrock-video-delivery-to-50-million-users/usp-origin-instance-detailed.png)
<center><i>Details on the composition of a USP origin</i></center>

We use Nginx for caching because we have a solid experience with Nginx under heavy loads on our on-prem edge servers, each delivering up to 200Gbps of video traffic. We want to capitalize on this expertise and avoid spreading ourselves thin on multiple tools (eg. Apache Cache module).

I recommend to read [the article published by unified streaming](https://www.unified-streaming.com/blog/part-2-optimizing-remote-object-storage-based-vod), which uses a similar method: caching via httpd directly.

> ### Network Load Balancer: manages TLS and helps with scaling

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Network Load Balancer: manages TLS and helps with scaling <a name="nlb"></a>
```

We’re using Network Load Balancers, as they’re able to offload TLS and are cheaper than Application Load Balancers that we don’t need.

> The major advantage of NLBs is a single entry point (a CNAME domain name), which distributes the load over n EC2 instances. This is essential for auto-scaling: nothing to configure at the CDN level, the load balancer will distribute the load among all Ready instances, whether there are 2 or 1000.

Author: J'ai effectivement modifié pour préciser que nous ne souhaitons pas interragir avec la couche HTTP

AWS managed load balancers are also interesting because certificates are auto-renewed. Another advantage is that they are distributed over all the availability zones, which was one of our prerequisites in our multi-AZ strategy.

> ### Content Delivery Network: Keep It Simple and Stupid

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Content Delivery Network: Keep It Simple and Stupid <a name="cdn"></a>
```

We’re using Cloudfront CDN with a basic configuration: we respect standards and use Cache-Control header.

We’re also using our on-prem Edge servers and other CDNs. Same, they all respect the RFCs on the HTTP protocol and we provide a valid Cache-Control header to be CDN agnostic.

> ### A first conclusion: V2 needs Consistent Hashing

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### A first conclusion: V2 needs Consistent Hashing <a name="firstConclusion"></a>
```

### A first conclusion: V2 needs Consistent Hashing <a name="ConclusionOfV1"></a>

> V1 of this platform allowed our video teams to work on new features and new software versions quicker, compared to on-prem. It was also new for infra teams: we wanted to understand how to scale the platform on AWS to meet our load requirements, making the best use of managed services and auto-scaling, which we did not have on-prem.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
V1 of this platform allowed our video teams to work on new features and new software versions quicker, compared to on-prem. It was also new for Infra teams: we wanted to understand how to scale the platform on AWS to meet our load requirements, making the best use of managed services and auto-scaling, which we did not have on-prem.
```

Reviewer 3: aux US ils parlent plutôt de "Infra teams" ou de "Ops teams" ? ou les 2 ?

Author: les deux :shrug:

![Inefficiency of a Round Robin algorithm in front of cache servers](/images/posts/2021-11-18-hsdo/image5.png)
<center><i>Inefficiency of a Round Robin algorithm in front of cache servers</i></center>

> To use the cache as much as possible, we need an adapted load balancing method: [consistent hashing](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Consistent_hashing).

Author: Fixé, j'ai mis des majuscules partout :+1:

![Consistent Hashing is an ideal method for caches](/images/posts/2021-11-18-hsdo/image10.png)
<center><i>Consistent Hashing is an ideal method for caches</i></center>

Last two images are from [our recent blog post about doing advanced load balancing at AWS](https://tech.bedrockstreaming.com/hsdo/).

> With Consistent Hashing, we can send all requests for the same video to the same cache server. This would optimize the local Nginx cache and reduce S3 costs.

Author: à ce niveau de la V1, il n'y a pas de Consistent Hashing.
Cette première conclusion est hypothétique, la mise en place qui validera se fait en V2.
Donc ça me semble pertinent de garder "would"

> ## Version 2: Let the requests flow

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Version 2: Let the requests flow <a name="version2"></a>
```

> ## Version 2: Let the requests flow

Author: Même pas non, j'ai voulu que les titres des trois versions refléttent l'état dans lequel on était quand on s'est lancé dedans:
* version 1 = on se cherche
* version 2 = on sait ce qu'on veut: de la requête en masse . Comment? avec du cache local et du Consistent Hashing
* version 3 = oups, dans notre archi on n'a pas pris en compte certains coûts: on repense l'archie en se basant sur Cost Explorer

V2 will be used in production, with thousands of requests per second: we need it to handle the load, to be reliable and robust.  
According to our strong experience with HAProxy, we know that it is able to do [Consistent Hashing with Bounded Loads](https://www.haproxy.com/user-spotlight-series/haproxy-load-balancing-at-vimeo/), which is exactly what we need.

> We started by adding haproxy servers between the load balancer and the USP servers.

Author: Yep, j'ai cherché/remplacé :+1:

> ### HAProxy to make Consistent Hashing

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### HAProxy to make Consistent Hashing <a name="haproxy"></a>
```

> ### HAProxy to make Consistent Hashing

Author: D'après DeepL, `make` ici a bien son sens de `réaliser`
> HAProxy pour réaliser un hachage cohérent

Ce qui a le sens que je souhaite, donc ça me parait pas mal

HAProxy is running on EC2 instances, in a dedicated AutoScalingGroup. As with the USP AutoScalingGroup, this one scales with AWS scaling policies: network bandwidth or CPU consumption. We can launch hundreds of HAProxy servers if we need to with independent scaling (but often linked) to USP servers.

![v2 of our VOD platform](/images/posts/2021-12-15-scaling-bedrock-video-delivery-to-50-million-users/vod-usp-v2.png)
<center><i>v2 of our VOD platform</i></center>

To send requests to USP origin, HAProxy needs to know all the healthy ec2 instances running in their AutoScalingGroup.  
We started by using Consul, to automatically populate our haproxy backend with these USP servers.  
See the [dedicated blog post](https://tech.bedrockstreaming.com/hsdo/) to know why we preferred to develop a tool dedicated to this task, which we called HAProxy Service Discovery Operator (HSDO).

> ### EC2 costs are reduced by using only Spot instances

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### EC2 costs are reduced by using only Spot instances <a name="spotInstance"></a>
```

In addition, HSDO is very responsive to movements in the AutoScalingGroup, which allowed us to replace all ec2 On Demand instances with Spot instances.  
And by all instances, I mean all USP servers (with cache), as well as HAProxy servers: 70% reduction in server costs.

Note that replacing USP origins with Spot instances has almost no impact on the cache, as we follow the [AWS best practices for Spot](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/spot-best-practices.html): use many different instance types, be multi-AZ and use the "Capacity Optimized" strategy. We observe very few reclaims and in any case, they impact few servers among the great variety we use.

> ### Production launch on this V2

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Production launch on this V2 <a name="productionLaunch"></a>
```

> See the [dedicated blog post](https://tech.bedrockstreaming.com/hsdo/) to know why we preferred to develop a tool dedicated to this task, which we called HAProxy Service Discovery Operator (HSDO).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
See the [dedicated blog post](https://tech.bedrockstreaming.com/hsdo/) to know why we preferred to develop a tool dedicated to this task, which we called HAProxy Service Discovery Orchestrator (HSDO).
```

The production launch of this V2 has confirmed the stability and performance of the platform. We were happy to see that our objectives were met, so we started migrating all our VOD content from on-prem to the cloud, video by video, client by client.

![Nginx cache hit ratio](/images/posts/2021-12-15-scaling-bedrock-video-delivery-to-50-million-users/nginx-cache-hit-ratio.png)
<center><i>Nginx cache hit ratio</i></center>

With Consistent Hashing, the cache becomes quite efficient and we saved 62% of calls to S3.

In addition, the cache speeds up the video packaging and we have reduced the overall origin response time. Win-win.

> ### EC2-other: the financial abyss

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### EC2-other: the financial abyss <a name="ec2Other"></a>
```

> Note that replacing USP origins with Spot instances has almost no impact on the cache, as we follow the [AWS best practices for Spot](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/spot-best-practices.html): use many different instance types, be multi-AZ and use the "Capacity Optimized" strategy. We observe very few reclaims and in any case, they impact just a few servers among the great variety we use.

Author: I added this info, thanks

EC2-other, in this case, means network traffic between Availability Zones.  
The private network between two data centers (AZs) at AWS is re-billed and accounted for 48% of the bill for our VOD platforms at the time.

![AWS Cost Explorer Octobre 2020](/images/posts/2021-12-15-scaling-bedrock-video-delivery-to-50-million-users/aws-cost-explorer-oct-2020.png)
<center><i>AWS Cost Explorer Octobre 2020</i></center>

> When HAProxy servers sent/received traffic from USP servers, the latter may not be in the same Availability Zone and the traffic between both was billed full price.

Author: yep, corrigé may par might

It was necessary to quickly find a solution for these costs which torpedoed the project. We started the creation of version 3 as soon as we had these metrics from version 2, at the beginning of our cloud migration.

> ## Version 3: Cost Explorer Driven Development

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Version 3: Cost Explorer Driven Development <a name="version3"></a>
```

> The idea is to do as well for half the price.

Author: J'aime bien le sens: 
"bon, on a un poil chié dans la colle pour la V2, alors l'idée c'est de faire pareil, mais 1/2 prix"

ça montre notre prise de maturité sur les subtilités d'AWS, l'agilité et qu'on avait quand même fait assez bien pour qu'on ait "juste" besoin de baisser les coûts

Pi vu qu'on est encore en V3, garder au présent ne me choque pas

> ### Be multi-AZ without inter-AZ traffic

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Be multi-AZ without inter-AZ traffic <a name="multiAZ"></a>
```

HSDO has been updated so that each HAProxy only sends requests to USP origins of the same AZ.  
It is still the Network Load Balancers that send traffic to the HAProxys, on multiple AZs.

Removing inter-AZ traffic was not that much work to do and we quickly saw the difference: 45% cost savings.

![The costs of this platform, where v3 was deployed in mid-November 2020](/images/posts/2021-12-15-scaling-bedrock-video-delivery-to-50-million-users/aws-cost-explorer-oct-to-dec-2020.png)
<center><i>The costs of this platform, where v3 was deployed in mid-November 2020</i></center>

The work on version 3 began shortly after the start of our cloud migration.  
We were still migrating on-prem to the cloud when we put V3 on prod. That’s why you can see all costs have increased from October to December: we’ve doubled the number of viewers during the period.

> ### Mono-AZs AutoScalingGroups

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Mono-AZs AutoScalingGroups <a name="monoAZ"></a>
```

We have also replaced the multi-AZ AutoScalingGroups by several mono-AZs. It brings us a finer scaling that corresponds to the real needs in each AZ. The randomness of the round robin and client requests means that, from time to time, one AZ receives a significantly higher load than another.

![v3 of our VOD platform](/images/posts/2021-12-15-scaling-bedrock-video-delivery-to-50-million-users/vod-usp-v3.png)
<center><i>v3 of our VOD platform</i></center>

Since the NLBs are using a Round Robin algorithm, each HAProxy can receive traffic for any video. Now that the HAProxy servers of an AZ only send traffic to the USP origins of the same AZ, everything that is cached exists in as many copies as we have configured of AZs.  
It makes us all the more resilient to an AZ failure.

> ## Optimizations

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Optimizations <a name="optimization"></a>
```

> Since V3, we have not made any major changes. However, some optimizations were necessary.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Since V3, we have not made any major architectural changes. However, some optimizations were necessary.
```

Pour insister que l'archi est restée la même, malgré les optims ?
(à toi de voir si c'est bien le sens du message que tu veux faire passer en-dessous)

> ### Adapt HAProxy config for EC2 bandwidth throttling

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Adapt HAProxy config for EC2 bandwidth throttling <a name="adapHAProxy"></a>
```

> We were still migrating on-prem to the cloud when we put V3 on prod. That’s why you can see all costs have increased from October to December: we’ve doubled the number of viewers during the period.

Reviewer 4: Tu dis que les coûts ont augmenté parce que le nombre de viewer augmente, mais tu devrais redire que les coûts "EC2 other" en orange ont bien disparus grâce à la V3,

Author: yep, c'est juste, j'ai rajouté une phrase le précisant ;)

> We have also replaced the multi-AZ AutoScalingGroups by several mono-AZ ones. It gives us a finer scaling that corresponds to the real needs in each AZ. The randomness of the round robin and client requests means that, from time to time, one AZ receives a significantly higher load than another.

Reviewer 4: Le fait de passer de multi à mono AZ est surtout une contrainte de la version 3 de HSDO. Sans ça, on est pas capable de réduire les coûts inter-AZ

Author: vu ensemble, c'est good

On AWS, an EC2 instance has a baseline network capacity and a burst capacity ([see UserGuide](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/ec2-instance-network-bandwidth.html#available-instance-bandwidth)).  
Baseline capacity is the network bandwidth you can consume all the time.

The Burst capacity is what you may be able to consume temporarily before being throttled to the baseline capacity.  
[In the EC2 presentation](https://aws.amazon.com/ec2/instance-types/#Compute_Optimized), the value “Up to” refers to the burst.  
[Less visible in the EC2 documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/compute-optimized-instances.html#compute-network-performance), one can find the baseline capacity for each instance type.  

> I.E: c5.large have a network bandwidth Up to 10Gbps (burst) but 0.75Gbps baseline bandwidth.  

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
For example, `c5.large` instances have a network bandwidth Up to 10Gbps (burst) but only 0.75Gbps baseline bandwidth.  
```

Author: I added this suggestion

> It makes us all the more resilient to an AZ failure.

Reviewer 4: Et en plus, chaque HAProxy est capable de renvoyer du traffic vers une AZ différente si aucun USp n'est healthy dans son AZ (=fallback)

Author: oui haproxy full Spot instances aussi, donc oui, ils peuvent se faire reclaim

Author: Je n'ajoute pas les détails que t'évoques @tanguyfalconnet , ça rajoute pas mal d'info et c'est pas forcément indispensable ici. C'est plutôt une bonne feature pour nous ;)

> The onset of problems occurs when HAProxy sends a little more traffic to one instance than to the others.  

Reviewer 5: "the onset of problems occurs", je comprends ça comme "le début des problèmes arrive", ça me semble un peu lourd.

Reformuler en "Les problèmes commencent" ?
Peut-être "Troubles start when HAP…" ?

The bandwidth of the USP origin may be throttled at some point.  

> We will observe poor performance or even service interruptions of this server.

Reviewer 5: Ces trois phrases, un peu plus liées :

> Troubles start when HAProxy sends a little more traffic to one instance than to the others: USP origin's bandwidth may be throttled at some point… And we will observe poor performance or even service interruptions of this server.

![A server whose bandwidth is throttled (seen from CloudWatch)](/images/posts/2021-12-15-scaling-bedrock-video-delivery-to-50-million-users/a-server-whose-bandwidth-is-throttled.png)
<center><i>A server whose bandwidth is throttled (seen from CloudWatch)</i></center>

We added `observe layer7` to the `default-server` in our HAProxy backends.

> It allows to remove from load balancing a server that returns an HTTP error code (50x).

Reviewer 5: Ces deux phrases, un peu reliées :

> We added `observe layer7` to the `default-server` in our HAProxy backends, to remove servers returning HTTP error codes (5xx) from its load-balancing.

?

> We also added the `retry` and `redispatch` options, which allows to retry a request sent to an unhealthy server on a healthy server. It's not optimal for the cache, but the important thing is that a client's request is successfully answered.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
We also added the `retry` and `redispatch` options, which allow to retry a request sent to an unhealthy server on a healthy server. It's not optimal for the cache, but what matters is that a client's request is successfully answered.
```

> [Less visible in the EC2 documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/compute-optimized-instances.html#compute-network-performance), one can find the **baseline capacity** for each instance type.  

Author: yep, we would have included throttles at the very beginning

We observed that with throttled bandwidth, the connection time from HAProxy to a USP server increases dramatically.
So we’ve also reduced `timeout connect` to 20 milliseconds.

Highlights of our HAProxy configuration: 

```
defaults
   timeout connect     20ms
   retries     2
    # We do not use "all-retryable-errors" because we don't want to retry on 500,
    #which is an USP expected error code when it goes wrongly
   retry-on     502 503 504 0rtt-rejected conn-failure empty-response response-timeout
   option     redispatch
   timeout server     2s
   default-server     inter 1s fall 1 rise 10 observe layer7
```

> From there, if a USP origin throttles on its network bandwidth or if there is a degradation of service, haproxy will immediately redispatch the request to another server.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Now, if a USP origin throttles on its network bandwidth or if there is a degradation of service, haproxy will immediately redispatch the request to another server.
```

> We have in the works the addition of an `agent-check`, so that the weight of the servers in HAProxy can be directly defined by an USP origin, if it detects that its bandwidth is throttled.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
We are working on adding an `agent-check`, so that the weight of the servers in HAProxy can be directly defined by an USP origin, if it detects that its bandwidth is throttled.
```

> ### Adjust the hash balance factor so that the scaling is triggered correctly

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
### Adjust the hash balance factor so scaling is triggered correctly
```

Pas sûr que ça soit valide, mais ça me semble moins lourd.

Reviewer 2: ```
### Adjust the hash balance factor to trigger scaling correctly
```

Author: mis à jour en: Adjust the hash balance factor to correctly trigger scaling

> ### Adjust the hash balance factor so that the scaling is triggered correctly

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Adjust the hash balance factor so that the scaling is triggered correctly <a name="balanceFactor"></a>
```

Our scaling depends on the average server utilization in an AutoScalingGroup. If a few servers are overloaded but the majority is not doing anything, we don't scale.

> But all content is not equally popular on our platforms. This affects Consistent Hashing which would result in few servers receiving way more traffic than others. Few servers would be overloaded and the majority would not do much.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
But all contents on our platforms are not equally popular. This affects Consistent Hashing which would result in few servers receiving way more traffic than others. Few servers would be overloaded and the majority would not do much.
```

Le sens de cette proposition : On a plusieurs contenus. Et ce sont les "contenus sur notre plateforme" qui ne sont pas tous "également populaires". Et pas les "contenus" qui "ne sont as également populaires sur notre plateforme". Je crois ?

![Graph showing few overloaded servers, using classic consistent hashing](/images/posts/2021-12-15-scaling-bedrock-video-delivery-to-50-million-users/consistent-hashing-inegality-legends.png)
<center><i>Graph showing few overloaded servers, using classic consistent hashing</i></center>

We want to benefit from Consistent Hashing while being able to scale on average consumption.

> This is what the Consistent Hashing with Bounded Loads allows: to benefit from the Consistent Hashing while balancing the load.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
This is what Consistent Hashing with Bounded Loads allows: to benefit from Consistent Hashing, while balancing load.
```

> We are working on adding an `agent-check`, so that the weight of the servers in HAProxy can be directly defined by an USP origin, if it detects that its bandwidth is throttled.

Reviewer 6: I'd sneek a link to the ENA documentation, it deserves to be known :) https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/monitoring-network-performance-ena.html#network-performance-metrics

> Our scaling depends on the average server utilization in an AutoScalingGroup. If a few servers are overloaded but the majority is not doing anything, <ins>we don't scale</ins>.

Reviewer 6: Are you sure this is a correct use of \<ins\>? It's for annotating revisions to a document not formatting.

Author: No it's not, I've changed to the good old `<u>`

The Bounded Loads are controlled by the hash-balance-factor option in HAProxy.  
[Given to the doc](http://cbonte.github.io/haproxy-dconv/2.3/snapshot/configuration.html#hash-balance-factor):  
```
<factor> is the control for the maximum number of concurrent requests to
         send to a server, expressed as a percentage of the average number
         of concurrent requests across all of the active servers.
```

We played the same load test, once using classic Consistent Hashing, a second time using bounded loads:

![Graph showing the effects of Bounded Loads over Consistent Hashing](/images/posts/2021-12-15-scaling-bedrock-video-delivery-to-50-million-users/testing-consistent-hashing-with-bounded-loads.png)
<center><i>Graph showing the effects of Bounded Loads over Consistent Hashing</i></center>

We did dozens of load tests before finding the best value for our use: 140.  

> For each load test, we looked at the evolution of :

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
For each load test, we looked at the evolution of:
```

> This is what Consistent Hashing with Bounded Loads allows: to benefit from Consistent Hashing, while balancing load.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
This is what [Consistent Hashing with Bounded Loads](https://arxiv.org/abs/1608.01350) allows: to benefit from Consistent Hashing, while balancing load.
```

Author: I already shared Vimeo's rex on this subject earlier in the article: https://www.haproxy.com/user-spotlight-series/haproxy-load-balancing-at-vimeo/https://www.haproxy.com/user-spotlight-series/haproxy-load-balancing-at-vimeo/

I don't think it's necessary to add another link for the same matter ?

Reviewer 6: yes, missed it

> [Given to the doc](http://cbonte.github.io/haproxy-dconv/2.3/snapshot/configuration.html#hash-balance-factor):  

Reviewer 6: Given/according ?

* Nginx Cache Hit Ratio
* Number of requests to S3
* HAProxy Backend retries and redispatches
* HAProxy backend 5xx response codes
* Free disk space on USP origins

Our configuration of the Consistent Hashing with Bounded Loads remains simple:

```
backend usp-servers-AZ-C
    balance hdr(X-LB)
    hash-type consistent sdbm avalanche
    hash-balance-factor 140
```

Thanks to Consistent Hashing with Bounded Loads, our cache is optimized without impacting our autoscaling.  
There may be contents much more solicited than others, the load will be balanced and our autoscaling will be activated.

> ## Conclusion

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Conclusion <a name="conclusion"></a>
```

> We played the same load test, once using classic Consistent Hashing, a second time using bounded loads:

Reviewer 6: _same load test_ ? another was not mentionned ?

We migrated our VOD to the cloud, moving from static servers to an end-to-end auto-scaling and multi-AZ infrastructure. We are now able to handle very high loads, which we could not do on-premise.  

> We had the opportunity to review our architecture 3 times, within a few weeks of each other, even though the migration had begun.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
We had the opportunity to review our architecture three times, within a few weeks of each other, even though the migration had begun.
```

> There may be contents much more solicited than others, the load will be balanced and our autoscaling will be activated.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
There may be contents that are much more solicited than others, the load will then be balanced and our autoscaling will be activated.
```

Author: DeepL finds the first one valid and I find it easier to read: I prefer to keep it that way

The v3 is not perfect, but it is quite well optimized, reliable and scalable.

> We are thinking about V4 and saving 20% of the costs by removing the NLB. We also identified some possible improvements, adding cache on HAProxy for example, or using HAProxy Agent Check so that the weight of the servers in HAProxy is driven directly by the servers, using the Amazon metrics on network performances. Another promising performance improvement could be to use HAProxy on ARM, it will be worth testing.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
We are thinking about V4 and saving 20% of the costs by removing the NLB. We also identified some possible improvements, adding cache on HAProxy for example, or using HAProxy Agent Check so that the weight of the servers in HAProxy is driven directly by the servers, using the Amazon metrics on network performances. Another promising performance improvement could be to use HAProxy on ARM as Graviton type instances offer significant discounts, it will be worth testing.
```

    * [Adapt HAProxy config for EC2 bandwidth throttling](#AdaptHaproxyForEC2Throttling)
    * [Adjust the hash balance factor to correctly trigger scaling](#AdjustHashBalanceFactor)
* [Conclusion](#conclusion)

## How we do streaming <a name="HowWeDoStreaming"></a>

To stream video, we cut each video file in 6 seconds chunks. The video player loads the associated manifest, which lists these pieces and in which order it must read them. It then downloads the first video chunk, plays it, then loads the second chunk, etc.

![Pictorial explanation of video streaming](/images/posts/2021-12-15-scaling-bedrock-video-delivery-to-50-million-users/pictorial-explanation-of-video-streaming.png)
<center><i>Pictorial explanation of video streaming</i></center>

A video is composed of several chunks.  
For example, a 90 minutes movie, with a duration of 6 seconds per chunk, means 90×60÷6=900 video chunks called from the player plus another 900 audio chunks. A total of 1800 different chunks for a single video.

## Just In Time Packaging <a name="JITP"></a>

A client calls a manifest and chunks to play a video.  
These calls are specific to the client using the Dash, HLS or Smooth formats.

> The [Unified Streaming](https://www.unified-streaming.com/) software handles these calls. Unified Origin (which we call USP) fetches the associated video from the S3 bucket. It relies on a server manifest (.Ism file), stored with the video, to respond with the video format the client requested: Dash, HLS, etc.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The [Unified Streaming](https://www.unified-streaming.com/) software handles these calls. Unified Origin (which we call USP) fetches the associated video from a AWS S3 bucket. It relies on a server manifest (.Ism file), stored with the video, to respond with the video format the client requested: Dash, HLS, etc.
```

using `the` would work if we already mentioned that we're using a S3 bucket to store our videos beforehand, here we didn't so it feels weird to read `the` as if it was obviously the case

and since this is the first time we're talking of a AWS service, we should specify `AWS S3` instead of just `S3` because again, it is not obvious that we're using AWS at Bedrock (`S3` only may not be obvious for a GCP user that it refers to some cloud service)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The [Unified Streaming](https://www.unified-streaming.com/) software handles these calls. Unified Origin (which we call USP) fetches the associated video from the S3 bucket. It relies on a server manifest (.ism file), stored with the video, to respond with the video format the client requested: Dash, HLS, etc.
```

I think this is `.ism` but if we just put the letter `i` in uppercase, we read `.LSM` instead

So, we store a complete video and its server manifest on S3, and USP provides the client with a client manifest and specific chunks: this is JIT packaging.

Another way is to compute all the chunks and manifests in advance and write them to S3: this is offline packaging.  

> In this case, once packaging is done, there is no need to do these calculations anymore: it lightens the architecture and avoids the availability challenges of doing real-time calculations.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In this case, once packaging is done, there is no need to do these calculations anymore: it lightens the architecture and avoids the availability challenges of doing real-time computing.
```

WDYT?

## Version 1: The quest for self <a name="version1"></a>

We were using USP on-prem. We decided to migrate it to the AWS cloud.

The goal of the V1 was to quickly provide a platform to our video teams to work on and certify the video players. For ops, it was a first stepping stone building this platform.

Let’s detail the components of this V1.

![v1 of our VOD platform](/images/posts/2021-12-15-scaling-bedrock-video-delivery-to-50-million-users/vod-usp-v1.png)
<center><i>v1 of our VOD platform</i></center>

Players send their requests to a CDN.  
The CDN uses a network load balancer as its origin.  
The network load balancer forwards requests using a Round Robin algorithm, to multiple AWS EC2 instances we call "USP Origin". These EC2 instances are controlled by an AutoScalingGroup and are dynamically scaled based on their network or CPU usage.

### Local cache with Nginx <a name="LocalCacheWithNginx"></a>

On EC2 instances, USP runs as a module of Apache HTTPD.

When a player requests a specific video chunk, it sends an HTTP request to HTTPD. The USP module it embeds will:

> * load the according .Ism file from s3 (the server manifest)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* load the according .ism file from s3 (the server manifest)
```

* load the video metadatas, stored in the first 65KB and the last 15B of a .mp4 file on s3
* load the specific chunk in the video, according to the player’s information: bitrate, language, etc. (still on S3)

> For each video chunk called from a player, the USP module does another call to the S3 bucket, loading the same .Ism manifest and the same metadata (first 65K and latest 15B).  

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For each video chunk called from a player, the USP module does another call to the S3 bucket, loading the same .ism manifest and the same metadata (first 65K and latest 15B).  
```

> To avoid these calls and **reduce S3 costs by 60%**, we added Nginx on these EC2s, between HTTPD and s3, to cache the manifest .Ism files and metadatas of .mp4 video files.  

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To avoid these calls and **reduce S3 costs by 60%**, we added Nginx on these EC2s, between HTTPD and s3, to cache the manifest .ism files and metadatas of .mp4 video files.  
```

We’re using **LUA** in the Nginx vhost, to cache these 65KB and 15B requests made by USP to the S3 bucket.

![Details on the composition of a USP origin](/images/posts/2021-12-15-scaling-bedrock-video-delivery-to-50-million-users/usp-origin-instance-detailed.png)
<center><i>Details on the composition of a USP origin</i></center>

> We use Nginx for caching because we have a solid experience with it, under heavy load, on our on-prem edge servers, which each delivers up to 200Gbps of video traffic. We want to capitalize on this expertise and avoid spreading ourselves thin on multiple tools (e.g, Apache Cache module).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
We use Nginx for caching because we have a solid experience with it, under heavy load, on our on-prem edge servers, which each delivers up to 200Gbps of video traffic. We want to capitalize on this expertise and avoid spreading ourselves on multiple tools (e.g, Apache Cache module).
```

(I'm not a native English guy, donc peut-être que c'est juste moi qui ne comprend pas ce que vient faire `thin` ici, merci de m'expliquer si c'est le cas)

Author: à priori DeepL en fait la distinction entre se disperser et s'éparpiller

Et avec `thin`, ça devient s'éparpiller, ce qui est bien le sens, ça me parait bon

Reviewer 2: `avoid spreading ourselves too thinly ` ?

![v2 of our VOD platform](/images/posts/2021-12-15-scaling-bedrock-video-delivery-to-50-million-users/vod-usp-v2.png)
<center><i>v2 of our VOD platform</i></center>

To send requests to USP origin, HAProxy needs to know all the healthy EC2 instances running in their AutoScalingGroup.  
We started by using Consul, to automatically populate our HAProxy backend with these USP servers.

See the [dedicated blog post](https://tech.bedrockstreaming.com/hsdo/) to know why we preferred to develop a tool dedicated to this task, which we called HAProxy Service Discovery Operator (HSDO).

### EC2 costs are reduced by using only Spot instances <a name="EC2SpotInstances"></a>

In addition, HSDO is very responsive to movements in the AutoScalingGroup, which allowed us to replace all EC2 On Demand instances with Spot instances.  
And by all instances, I mean all USP servers (with cache), as well as HAProxy servers: **70% reduction in server costs**.

> Note that replacing USP origins with Spot instances has almost no impact on the cache, as we follow the [AWS best practices for Spot](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/spot-best-practices.html): use many different instance types, be multi-AZ and use the "Capacity Optimized" strategy. We observe very few reclaims and in any case, they impact few servers among the great variety we use.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Note that replacing USP origins with Spot instances has almost no impact on the cache, as we follow the [AWS best practices for Spot](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/spot-best-practices.html): use many different instance types, be multi-AZ and use the "Capacity Optimized" strategy. We observe very few reclaims and in any case, they impact just a few servers among the great variety we use.
```

```

We played the same load test, once using classic Consistent Hashing, a second time using bounded loads:

![Graph showing the effects of Bounded Loads over Consistent Hashing](/images/posts/2021-12-15-scaling-bedrock-video-delivery-to-50-million-users/testing-consistent-hashing-with-bounded-loads.png)
<center><i>Graph showing the effects of Bounded Loads over Consistent Hashing</i></center>

We did dozens of load tests before finding the best value for our use: 140.  
For each load test, we looked at the evolution of:

* Nginx Cache Hit Ratio
* Number of requests to S3
* HAProxy Backend retries and redispatches
* HAProxy backend 5xx response codes
* Free disk space on USP origins

Our configuration of the Consistent Hashing with Bounded Loads remains simple:

```
backend usp-servers-AZ-C
    balance hdr(X-LB)
    hash-type consistent sdbm avalanche
    hash-balance-factor 140
```

Thanks to Consistent Hashing with Bounded Loads, our cache is optimized without impacting our autoscaling.  
There may be contents much more solicited than others, the load will be balanced and our autoscaling will be activated.

## Conclusion <a name="conclusion"></a>

> We migrated our VOD to the cloud, moving from static servers to an end-to-end auto-scaling and multi-AZ infrastructure. We are now able to handle very high loads, which we could not do on-premise.  

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
We migrated our VOD service to the cloud, moving from static servers to an end-to-end auto-scaling and multi-AZ infrastructure. We are now able to handle very high loads, which we could not do on-premise.  
```

Author: Ce n'est pas tant un service de VOD que vraiment la diffusion des vidéos que nous avons migré, j'ai donc modifié VOD en video delivery qui est plus cohérent avec le titre

We had the opportunity to review our architecture three times, within a few weeks of each other, even though the migration had begun.

The v3 is not perfect, but it is quite well optimized, reliable and scalable.

> We are thinking about V4 and saving 20% of the costs by removing the NLB. We also identified some possible improvements, adding cache on HAProxy for example, or using HAProxy Agent Check so that the weight of the servers in HAProxy is driven directly by the servers, using the Amazon metrics on network performances. The performance of HAProxy on ARM is very promising, it will be worth testing.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
We are thinking about V4 and saving 20% of the costs by removing the NLB. We also identified some possible improvements, adding cache on HAProxy for example, or using HAProxy Agent Check so that the weight of the servers in HAProxy is driven directly by the servers, using the Amazon metrics on network performances. Another promising performance improvement could be to use HAProxy on ARM, it will be worth testing.
```
